- [Instructor] Assuming that Docker has been installed
for your operating system,
and that all the dependencies are fulfilled,
we will now move on to packaging our jar in a Docker image.
If you had not completed the Docker installation procedures
in the introduction, set up your environment video
at the start of this series,
please go back and do that now.
Additionally, we'll need to ensure that Docker is running.
On a Mac, this is pretty easy,
we'll use the Command + space bar
and type Docker and hit Enter.
We will need to do this before we go forward.
With Docker running, let's go back to IntelliJ.
For this video, we will use the source code
found in 0204 Begin.
Now, once that's open and complete,
we're going to start by creating a new file,
clicking on the project root folder, going to new and file.
We'll call this file Docker with a capital D,
file, hit Enter.
We'll start by typing from open jdk:8-jdk-alpine.
Hit Enter.
After the colon, we're specifying the version of JDK
with the specific instance of Alpine Linux OS being used.
Next, we need to specify a maintainer for this image.
For me, I'm putting my website.
For you, please put the organization
that you are doing work for.
This is helpful, especially if you choose to push your image
to Docker hub.
We'll type maintainer and your organization
and hit Enter.
On the next line,
we'll create an ARG section
and we're going to type ARG space JAR underscore file.
And we'll finish that by providing the location
where our springboot prod application jar is been built.
build/libs/SpringBootProdApplication-0.0.1
SNAPSHOT.jar
and hit Enter.
Having the ARG section will make this easier
and more succinct than our Docker file.
Next, we're going to type copy
and we're to use the dollar sign curly brackets
and specify the jar file argument
and copy this to app.jar.
This takes our ARG parameter and copies the name
of our jar file to a more simplified name of app.jar.
There are some security concerns that had been raised
recently about Docker images
with a user running root applications
inside a container to break free
from the container and compromise the host.
The springboot Docker guide recommends using
a non-root account for our applications to run with.
And let's do that now.
Right above the ARG statement
and below the maintainer, we'll hit Enter,
and we're going to type run add group space -S mygroup
&& adduser -S myuser space -G space mygroup.
If you're creating a Windows Docker image,
the specific commands would differ.
Next, we're going to type user space my user: my group.
This will specify the user name
and optionally the user group to use when running the image
and for any run command and entry point
after the specification.
We'll come down to the last line
and now we're going to type entry point.
This is the command that specifies, in order,
what needs to be invoked for the central application
of our Docker image.
This takes an array of commands.
So we're going to type ["Java", "=jar", "Application.jar"],
with the closing bracket.
Now, this is also where we would pass our spring profile,
if needed, by including additional entry
of -d spring.profiles.active equals dev
or whatever the environment may be.
For now, I'm not going add this here
but use a different methodology
after we've built the Docker image
to provide those spring environment profile variables.
So next, we need to go ahead and save the application.
We're going to do a gradle clean build.
And then when this is done, from the same terminal
window, we'll run the Docker build command.
Let's type Docker build -t springboot prod image space dot.
Let me break this down before you hit Enter.
In my example, I type Docker build -t
springboot - prod - image
which uses the tag shorthand option for naming the tag.
This will be important in a moment
for providing a more user-friendly way
of identifying the image.
The last part of this command specifies the path.
In this instance, I include a dot,
which says look here in the local directory.
That's kind of important since the arg uses a relative path
for this directory.
Let's hit Enter and run the build.
All right, now it's time to run the build.
Let's type Docker run -d,
which runs in detached, meaning it won't display
in the window.
And we'll write -p,
which is to specify the port to connect to.
So for us, that would be 9090,
and the springboot app would be 9,000.
And then we're going to type E,
which is for environment.
We'll use "SPRING_PROFILES_ACTIVE=prod".
And then this is going to be followed
with the image tag name.
We'll type springboot prod image
and we'll hit Enter.
This generates a very long sequence of characters
that start with the container ID.
Okay, now we're going to do one more thing
before testing the container,
and that is to type Docker ES - A.
And here we can see our container.
Let's open up our browser.
We'll go to local host:90,90, and hit Enter.
And there we have our application running.
There's one last thing I want to show you
and that is, now we're going to use a built-in
that springboot gradle plugin has to build Docker images
in one go, along with our clean build options.
Now, first, let's go ahead and stop our current
Docker instance.
We'll type Docker container stop.
We'll get the container ID.
Copy that and paste it in.
And stop.
Go back to our Chrome window and refresh.
I stopped the wrong image.
Let's type this again.
Docker container stop.
I have several images sitting on the background here
that I've been working with.
We'll copy this container ID,
paste it in, hit stop.
Go back, refresh.
It stopped.
This springboot gradle plugin functionality
is available out of the box.
And I wanted to show you two ways to build
this Docker container.
The second way with springboot,
it's been available since springboot 2.3.
And all it requires for us is to type
gradle w space boot build image,
pay attention to the YAML case syntax here,
space -- the image name,
and this is where we're going to type our organization
and then our image name.
So we'll say = MDR solutions/ springboot-prod-image,
and then we'll hit Enter.
The boot build image command uses under the hood,
the keto build packs.
And I recommend that you take a look at
the documentation at
https://keto.io/docs.
The interesting thing about this plugin
is that it does not require a Docker file to run.
The boot build image plugin is highly opinionated
and behind the scenes,
it sets the users and the groups to satisfy security
like we did in the Docker file.
You can specify as well in your gradle file
using the boot build image task
and provide a host of other details
like the image name, the build image,
the run image, the environment details, and much more.
Now this will take some time to run
and build the first time.
Subsequent builds will actually go faster.
So with that done,
we can finally run our Docker image that was built
with the boot build image task plugin through gradle.
What I want to show you here is pay attention
to the successfully built image name.
You want to copy that image name
and then type Docker run -p 9090:9000 - E, all quotes again,
upper case SPRING PROFILES ACTIVE=prod, closed quotes.
- t, and we want to paste in the name of our image.
So we'll do paste and hit Enter.
Now, in this instance, we have not run it in detach mode.
If you remember, that is with a -d
so that you can see the application running in the logs.